Question: 1

What is the extension of File produced by compiler on Windows?
(A) .a
(B) .exe
(C) .out
(D) .obj

Ans: B
On Windows OS output file produced by compiler has .exe extension which means executable file.

Question: 2

Default output file produced by gcc compiler on Linux?

(A) .a
(B) a.obj
(C) a.exe
(D) a.out

Ans: D
By default GCC compiler produces a.out if name of output file is not specified.

Question: 3

Which of the following Linux command is used to find out Text, Data and BSS segment size of a binary a.out?

(A) findsize a.out
(B) size a.out
(C) calc a.out
(D) ls -ltr a.out

Ans: B

Question: 4

What does .txt section contains?

(A) Executable Instructions
(B) Un-initialized Global Variables
(C) Un-initialized Static Variables
(D) Initialized Static & Global Variables

Ans: A
Text area is a part of RAM which contains executabel instructions.

Question:5

What are the key features in the C programming language?

Answer: Features are as follows:

Portability: It is a platform-independent language.
Modularity: Possibility to break down large programs into small modules.
Flexibility: The possibility of a programmer to control the language.
Speed: C comes with support for system programming and hence it compiles and executes with high speed 
when compared with other high-level languages.
Extensibility: Possibility to add new features by the programmer.

Question:6

What are the basic data types associated with C?

Answer:

Int – Represent the number (integer)
Float – Number with a fraction part.
Double – Double-precision floating-point value
Char – Single character
Void – Special purpose type without any value.


Question:7

What is the description for syntax errors?

Answer: The mistakes/errors that occur while creating a program are called syntax errors. 
Misspelled commands or incorrect case commands, an incorrect number of parameters in calling method /function, 
data type mismatches can be identified as common examples for syntax errors.


Question:8

What is the process to create increment and decrement statement in C?

Answer: There are two possible methods to perform this task.

Use increment (++) and decrement (-) operator.
Example When x=4, x++ returns 5 and x- returns 3.

Use conventional + or – sign.
Example When x=4, use x+1 to get 5 and x-1 to get 3.


Question:9

What are reserved words with a programming language?

Answer: The words that are a part of the standard C language library are called reserved words. 
Those reserved words have special meaning and it is not possible to use them for any activity other than its intended functionality.

Example: void, return int.


Question:10

What is the explanation for the dangling pointer in C?

Answer: When there is a pointer pointing to a memory address of any variable, 
but after some time the variable was deleted from the memory location while keeping 
the pointer pointing to that location is known as a dangling pointer in C.


Question:11

Describe static function with its usage?

Answer: A function, which has a function definition prefixed with a static keyword is defined as a static function. 
The static function should be called within the same source code.


Question:12

Describe Wild Pointers in C?

Answer: Uninitialized pointers in the C code are known as Wild Pointers. 
They point to some arbitrary memory location and can cause bad program behavior or program crash.


Question:13

What is the difference between ++a and a++?

Answer: ‘++a”  is called prefixed increment and the increment will happen first on a variable. ‘a++’ is called postfix increment and 
the increment happens after the value of a variable used for the operations.


Question:14

Describe the difference between = and == symbols in C programming?

Answer: ‘==’ is the comparison operator which is used to compare the value or expression on the 
left-hand side with the value or expression on the right-hand side.

‘=’ is the assignment operator which is used to assign the value of the right-hand side to the variable on the left-hand side.

Question:15

What is the explanation for prototype function in C?

Answer: Prototype function is a declaration of a function with the following information to the compiler.

Name of the function.
The return type of the function.
Parameters list of the function.

int sum(int, int);

In this example Name of the function is Sum, 
the return type is the integer data type and it accepts two integer parameters.


Question:16

Describe the header file and its usage in C programming?

Answer: The file containing the definitions and prototypes of the functions being used in the program are called a header file. 
It is also known as a library file.

Example: The header file contains commands like printf and scanf is from the stdio.h library file.


Question:17

There is a practice in coding to keep some code blocks in comment symbols than delete it when debugging. How this affects when debugging?

Answer: This concept is called commenting out and this is the way to isolate some part of the code which scans possible reason for the error. 
Also, this concept helps to save time because if the code is not the reason for the issue it can simply be removed from comment.


Question:18

In compilation process at what sequence Preprocessor comes into picture?

(A) 1
(B) 2
(C) 3
(D) 4

Ans: A

Question:19

Preprocessor includes content of header files added in source code?

(A) Yes
(B) No

Ans: A


Question:20

Which compilation unit is responsible for adding header files content in the source code?

(A) Linker
(B) Compiler
(C) Assembler
(D) Preprocessor

Ans: D


Question:21

Is there any limit in adding no of header files in program?

(A) Yes
(B) No

Ans: B

Question:22

What is the extension of output file produced by Preprocessor?

(A) .h
(B) .exe
(C) .i
(D) .asm

Ans: C


Question:23

__FILE__ is predefined macro and contains the current filename as a string. Is this true/false?

(A) Yes
(B) No

Ans: A


Question:24

Which of the following ways can be used to include header file in C programs?

(A) #include<stdio.h>
(B) #include"stdio.h"
(C) Both A & B

Ans: C


Question:25

What should be the output of below program ?

##include "stdio.h"

int  main()
{
	printf("CppBuzz.com");
return 0; 	
}

(A) CppBuzz.com
(B) No output
(C) Compilation Error in preprocessing
(D) None of above

Ans: C


Question:26

What should be the output of below program?

#define # @
@include "stdio.h"

int main()
{
 	printf("CppBuzz.com");
 	return 0;
}

(A) CppBuzz.com
(B) Nothing
(C) Compilation Error
(D) Depends on Compilor

Ans: C


Question:27

Which of the following ways are correct to comment out preprocessing of any line?

(A) -- #include<stdio.h>
(B) // #include<stdio.h>
(C) ''#include<stdio.h>
(D) ##include<stdio.h>

Ans: B


Question:28

Will compiler produce any compilation error if same header file is included two times?

(A) Yes
(B) No

Ans: B


Question:29

The output of Assembler in process of compilation is?

(A) Assembly Code
(B) Object Code
(C) Executable
(D) .i file

Ans: B


Question:30

The input to the Assembler in the compilation process is?

(A) Assembly Code
(B) .i file produced by Preprocessor
(C) Object Code
(D) Source Code

Ans: A
Assembler is part of Compiler and it produced Assemly code as ouput which has .asm extension.

